NPFL147 Assignment 3 Submission
This should serve as a checklist that you have finished all parts of the assignment. In the bottom of this form there will be a field to provide URL for a Google Colab or similar with your code.

In case your answer is "No" in some of the checklist questions asking whether specific numbers match your solution, make sure your notebook prints these out. However, if your numbers differ by a lot, you are probably doing something wrong. If you think your numbers are correct and our numbers are wrong (unlikely but very much possible), or you spot a mistake in the form, please send us an email.
 
Koncept bol uložený
* Označuje povinnú otázku

Your name*
Patrik Broček
Contact email
*
patrik.brocek@gmail.com


Downloading data*
Are you downloading the data from within the notebook, such that it can be run on a fresh instance?
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Line number check*
The number of valid lines (removing empty lines, comments, and lines that contain a dash (-) or a period (.) in the first column) should be:
English, train (needed for HMM training): 177,410
Czech, dev (needed for HMM training): 384,431
Czech, test (before truncation to 1500 sentences): 305,808
Does that match in your solution?
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Test data sizes check*
Does the size of the English and Czech test sets in terms of word/tag pairs match the following?
English 28,397
Czech 22,844
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Performance of the Stanza tagger - English*
What is the accuracy of the Stanza tagger measured on the English test set? (percentage without the %-sign)


Performance of the Stanza tagger - Czech*
What is the accuracy of the Stanza tagger measured on the Czech test set? (percentage without the %-sign)


Stanza tagger confusion matrices*
Does your notebook include the confusion matrices for the Stanza tagger for both languages?
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)
Stanza tagger - observations
Optional - if you gathered some insights in the first part of the assignment, you can share them with us here.


HMM Tagging - data truncation*
Have you truncated both the dev (heldout) and the test set for Czech to only contain 1500 sentences?
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Sentence separators*
It might be a good idea to insert sentence separators, handle the sentences independently, or in some other way. You are not required to do it, but if you do, please describe your approach in a few words here.


Experimental setting - Czech*
For the assignment the default setting is to use the `train-la` subset of the Czech data, but optionally you can try out various data mixes. Here you can indicate you have done so.
I only used the train-la subset (default)
I performed additional experiments with different data (selecting this might gain you some bonus points)


HMM parameter estimation - smoothing*
Have you run smoothing on both the tag model and the emission model?
Yes
Only on one of them (selecting this will probably cost you points)
No (selecting this will probably cost you more points)


HMM parameter estimation - smoothing data*
Have you used the proper dataset for estimating smoothing parameters (i.e. heldout, aka. dev)
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Supervised HMM accuracy - English*
What is the English test data accuracy of the HMM tagger when using supervised training on the whole dataset?


Supervised HMM accuracy - Czech*
What is the Czech test data accuracy of the HMM tagger when using supervised training on the whole dataset?


Unsupervised HMM - initial accuracy, English*
What is the English test data accuracy of the HMM tagger when using supervised training on the first 10,000 words from training data? This is the initialized model before running the Baum-Welch algorithm.


Unsupervised data check*
Confirm that the data used for further training of the unsupervised model did not contain any tags (beyond the first 10,000).
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Unsupervised HMM results, English*
If you managed to run the Baum-Welch algorithm, enter the model's accuracy on the English test data after the convergence. 


Unsupervised HMM results, Czech*
If you managed to run the Baum-Welch algorithm, enter the model's accuracy on the Czech test data after the convergence. 


Confusion matrices for all models*
Does the solution show confusion matrices for all HMM models (2 for supervised, 2 for unsupervised models)?
Yes
No (selecting this will probably cost you points)


Discussion*
Summarize your observations on the different taggers, their accruacy, errors, etc. Try to explain what you see.


Code URL*
An URL to a self-contained notebook that can be run from top to bottom.


Use of AI declaration*
Please disclose if or how did you use generative models when working on this assignment. If you gained some insights about applying AI models for this, we'd be happy if you share them with us!
Feedback
Anything else you might want to comment regarding the assignment and/or submission? For example, did you find this checklist helpful?
